Chanz Markl, Ryan Panek
Professor Pan
COSC 331.002
25 March 2019

                                                        Project 1 Overview
  The goal of our project was to create a backend CRUD application that consumes RESTful services using Nodejs and a MySQL Database. Our Project must use HTTP and the set of constraints that are used for creating Web services set by REST services. Our project will use HTTP requests to GET, PUT, POST and DELETE data. Our program will allow for the communication of computers over a network. This will be done by creating a connection to our database and using postman to GET, PUT, POST and DELETE data. Our problem was to create the backend CRUD application to store and retrieve data that includes details that would describe a student such as id, first Name, last Name, year, age, major, and GPA.
  Our solution to this problem was to build a backend CRUD application that uses Nodejs. We began by coding a connection to our database using Visual Studio Code. To connect to our database, we had to install body-parser, expressjs, and MySQL by using the NodeJS terminal. From this point we were able to code each of the GET, PUT, POST and DELETE commands. After completing the commands, we then tested each of them in Postman by adding, changing, and removing data using the command for the specified function. The application then begins by connecting to the database and using postman to manipulate the data as needed.
	The success of our project is based on how well our code executes the commands required that include being able to the GET, PUT, POST and DELETE data within our database. We will also determine our success by proving our application can store and retrieve the data being sent to or being requested by the user. Other factors that affect our applications success are our code style and efficiency. 
Overall our project was able to be created by doing the research required to learn the commands and how to code them to allow us to create and connect to a database and then store and retrieve data. We met many difficulties while working on our project such as using commands that did not further our progress and many bugs within our code that caused problems with connecting to our database. The main difficulty we faced was having to learn how to code using JavaScript and learning how to connect to our MySQL database. After completing the project, we believe we have gained the knowledge needed to create backend CRUD applications that consume RESTful services and the ability to do similar applications.

